(Beiyan Police Station)
(Termination of Residential Surveillance)
(On July 15, 2011, Meng Guangcai
was put under residential surveillance.)
(Due to insufficient evidence,
surveillance is now terminated.)
Eighteen years.
It's been eighteen years.
The only blood sample
from the 6.10 case.
We brought Meng Guangcai in
because of this blood sample.
We hoped to find the owner
of the blood sample
to bring down Meng Guangcai.
But then, this person surfaced
and died before our eyes.
The person at the cemetery
was Huang Mantang.
The person in the hospital
is Xue Yonghui.
We've got all the information.
All the testimonies match up.
But there's not a shred of evidence
that points to Meng Guangcai.
=The Silent Rift=
=Episode 15=
(The Truth?)
Today, Meng Guangcai,
Caisheng Group's chairman,
was released
from residential surveillance
I'm He Huan, reporting live for you.
- They're here.
- Hello.
May I interview you?
Hello, may I interview you?
Stop filming.
- Ms. Xue.
No photos, please.
- Say something.
- No interviews.
- It's fine.
- Make way.
- Could you comment?
- No interviews.
- Say something.
Rules say
I shouldn't be here seeing you off.
But we're old acquaintances after all.
You'll leave here today.
So I came to see you.
Got something to say to me, don't you?
You've got luck on your side.
Zhu,
we've known each other for 28 years
and been at odds for nearly twenty.
What luck do I have?
I, Meng Guangcai,
am destined to rot in the dirt.
From the day you came in, we all knew
you were involved in that robbery.
We just lack direct evidence
against you.
This time, you won.
(Termination of Residential Surveillance)
You can leave here today.
I spent half my life climbing,
almost touching the clouds above.
Then you yanked me down midair.
You say I won?
You told me Meng Xiaoliang isn't my son,
ripping open that wound in my heart
and making me watch it bleed again.
Did I win?
Lijun, Dazhu, and Yonghui.
You've caught them all, one by one.
And you say I won?
- Step back. Step back.
- Mom, let's wait in the car.
We'll wait here.
Get back. Stop filming! Stop it!
Your father will see us
the moment he steps out.
To protect your secrets
and to grasp your clouds,
do you know how many people
got implicated?
Do you realize how many people
you've affected?
Weren't they yanked from the sky too?
Don't their hearts bleed just as much?
Meng Guangcai, listen up.
My whole life is tied to yours.
I swear,
with a task force or not,
no matter what I do, I'll hunt you down.
My fate is tied to yours.
The 6.10 case will definitely be solved.
I came today
to tell you one thing.
You've won this time.
You can leave now.
Zhu,
I'm not leaving.
What are you saying?
Today, I'll let you win.
Tell me.
Where could I possibly go?
Mr. Chen raised me.
His eyes were like that.
If you were me, could you ignore it?
Meng Xiaoliang
is my son.
I needed money to buy his life.
If it were you,
what would you have done?
(Beiyan County Hospital, 1993)
Your son has limited mobility.
He's weaker than most children.
As parents, you must be extra careful.
Don't rush to discharge him now.
His fever has broken.
If he starts coughing again,
call me immediately.
Okay, Doctor.
Thank you, Doctor.
You do care about your mom, kiddo.
It's uncomfortable
at the construction site.
So she can stay here
a few more days, right?
Hospital costs drain money like water.
Don't worry about the money.
Stop overthinking it.
I'm heading out for a bit.
I'll be back later.
Dazhu told me you're helping
other foremen collect the overdue wages.
Hanging firecrackers again?
What firecrackers?
But that firecracker thing last time
actually made me famous.
So other workers came to me.
They couldn't get their money
from other sites
and asked me to help.
Don't worry. I have you guys now.
I won't do anything reckless.
We dragged you down.
Otherwise, you wouldn't be doing that.
Stop overthinking and talking nonsense.
Raising our son healthy
is a huge achievement.
I'll go now. Be back later.
- Okay?
- Go ahead.
(Ward)
I'll be back later.
(Beiyan Shaliang Rural Credit Union)
It's only five yuan left.
You sure you don't want
to clear it out and close?
Next, please.
The test results are back.
It's an atrioventricular septal defect.
It's congenital. He needs surgery soon.
Doctor, wasn't it just a cough?
How'd he get heart disease?
Doctor, roughly how much
will this surgery cost?
It depends on the case.
Generally, for such surgery,
prepare at least 20,000 yuan upfront.
20,000 yuan?
Yes.
I thought he could be discharged
after the tests?
He can't be discharged yet.
The previous fever and cough
suggested a lung vascular infection
caused by congestive heart failure.
It's a classic sign
of congenital heart defect
manifesting externally.
We were only suspicious before.
That's why we
did the external tests on him
to confirm it.
Then, Doctor,
when will the surgery happen?
And when do we need
to pay the surgery fee?
The sooner, the better.
The longer it's delayed,
the worse it is for him,
and the risk of surgical failure
also increases.
If we don't do this surgery,
what's the worst possible outcome?
It's very serious.
Don't panic too much.
Xiaoliang is our son.
I'd give my life to save him.
I'll go ask the doctor
to look at his lab report.
Lower it. Slower.
Got it.
Take it slow.
Okay.
Guangcai, if it comes to it,
maybe tell Zhu
and ask him for help.
We owe him too much.
I really don't know how to ask.
And 20,000 is a huge amount.
Watch out.
He might not have a way.
Let's just see how it goes.
By the way, Dazhu, go look around.
See if there are any odd jobs.
Preferably the kind
that pays daily, got it?
Wait, let me do it first.
Come here.
Otherwise, we can't afford
Xiaoliang's hospital stay.
Alright, I'll go to the market
and ask after finishing this job.
Guangcai.
Guangcai, Lijun told us about your kid.
You've always looked out
for us brothers.
Now you're in trouble.
We brothers must help.
It's not much. We brothers chipped in.
Please take it, Guangcai.
- Take it, Guangcai.
- It's not much.
- We chipped in.
Accept it.
Guangcai.
Others are chipping in too.
It's coming right over.
We also agreed
we'll all donate today's wages
for the kid's treatment.
Th-thank you.
Guangcai,
look who's here.
Thank you all.
I'll go over there.
I'll thank you all for Guangcai.
Thank you all.
Okay. No problem.
Let's go. Back to work.
Go.
Alright.
Principal Chen said not to tell you.
The doctor said it's just a bruise.
But his cataract surgery can't wait.
If it's delayed any further,
he'll go blind.
Principal Chen
needs someone to care for him.
You go back first.
I'll figure out the rest.
Guangcai, I heard about Xiaoliang.
I want to drop out.
What nonsense is that?
You'll have Gaokao soon.
If you don't study, then what?
To work with you guys on site.
Guangcai, I'm strong, look.
What's the use in you doing this?
There's no future in this.
Us suffering is fine.
But you can't suffer.
What does Qin always tell you?
Forgot all of it?
Guangcai, Qin gave up studying for me.
So can I.
What's a little hardship?
Listen to me. Once you get into college,
become a lawyer, a teacher,
or an accountant, and make it,
then you can truly help Qin.
Do you have to be like me,
working as a laborer
on construction sites
and being a pauper?
What can a pauper help with?
Do we need another pauper?
Listen to me.
Go inside and have a drink.
Wash your face.
Later, I'll take you to see Qin.
Cheer up.
Chin up, young man.
Go on.
Go.
You have no idea
how much I hated myself back then.
I hate myself for being useless waste.
I couldn't even save my own loved ones.
You had a choice.
Why commit crimes?
I must save them.
Come on.
Give it to me.
Guangcai, the pay here is way too low.
Even if the three of us
work nonstop 24 hours,
it still won't cover the hospital bills.
I want to go back to Magou.
Mr. Chen is all alone there.
I'm really worried.
You going back won't solve anything.
Here's what we'll do.
I'll send Lijun back tomorrow
to check on things.
You just stay out of it.
Make sure that side is tied down tight.
Okay.
Where are you going?
I'm going to the credit union
to get some cash
so Lijun can take it back to Mr. Chen.
Sir.
Yes, I made an appointment.
On the 10th.
Six hundred thousand.
It'll arrive before 1 PM.
(Beiyan Shaliang Rural Credit Union)
You can send someone over
to withdraw the money with me.
It won't be wrong.
Yes.
There's no so-called...
(Beiyan County Hospital)
His temperature has dropped today.
- But the doctor said
- Okay.
you need to hurry.
Good boy.
The county hospital
doesn't have the facilities for surgery.
So once you've decided,
we need to contact
the provincial hospital first
before helping you transfer.
Besides, every extra day you stay
is another day
of hospital fees, isn't it?
Are we deliberately staying here?
What parent
wants their child to be sick?
We have no choice.
We want to pay the surgery fee
as soon as possible.
We can't scrape it together right now.
I didn't say anything.
(Beiyan Shaliang Rural Credit Union)
Next.
Withdraw.
How much?
Twenty.
(Beiyan Shaliang Rural Credit Union)
Dazhu,
we're good brothers, right?
Of course, we are.
Guangcai, we are the kind of brothers
who go through fire and water
for each other.
What if it really is fire and water
this time?
What is it?
There's some money.
If we take it,
we might risk our lives.
What money? How much?
Sixty thousand?
Six hundred thousand.
I've never seen that much money
in my life.
Six hundred thousand?
With that money,
both Xiaoliang's illness
and Mr. Chen's eyes
could be taken care of.
But listen to me.
If I actually do it, and if...
You have to help me.
What is it? What will you do?
Guangcai, just tell me.
Whatever it is, I'll follow you.
Because of me,
Lijun and Dazhu
agreed without any hesitation.
Yonghui got dragged into that too.
I'm such an idiot.
Today, because of me again,
they all got pulled into this mess.
Aren't those you've hurt innocent?
The bank clerk driven mad by the robbery
and my good brothers Lin Shan
and Du Ming,
what about them?
And Li Fen, who bore your child.
Who have you ever done right by?
I have a condition.
The police don't accept
any form of conditional exchange.
It's effortless for you.
If you agree,
I'll confess.
Go ahead.
Forget about the stupid truth.
I am
Meng Xiaoliang's father.
Don't tell him about his origins.
I've already harmed too many people.
I can't harm Xiaoliang too.
Go home.
The one you're waiting for
won't come out.
Why hasn't he been released?
Yes, Officer Zhu.
Could you please tell us?
Could you tell us, Officer Zhu?
Why hasn't he been released?
What happened?
Tell us, Officer Zhu.
I'm sorry.
Please answer us.
Officer Zhu.
- Step back!
- Officer Zhu.
Chief, since he's already confessed,
let Officer Zhu join
the next interrogation session.
Keep it steady. Go ahead.
Alright, I'll go tell my master.
Meng Guangcai, please describe in detail
the robbery of the Beiyan Credit Union
on June 10, 1993.
On June 10, 1993,
a few brothers and I
robbed the Beiyan Credit Union.
How many people? Who were they?
Explain the details clearly.
Four people.
To be precise,
there were four people at first.
After we four arrived
at the credit union,
I went in with Wang Dazhu
and Huang Mantang to get the money.
Jiao Lijun kept watch outside.
(Beiyan Shaliang Rural Credit Union)
Don't move!
Nobody move!
Police!
Put it down!
Put the gun down!
Kick it over!
Don't move!
Nobody move!
Go! Go! Go!
Go! Go!
Xue Yonghui never intended to fire.
He was young
and was panicking.
That homemade firearm
accidentally fired.
So those involved in the robbery
that day were
Jiao Lijun,
Wang Dazhu,
Huang Mantang,
Xue Yonghui,
and you.
No Zuo Long?
No Zuo Long.
Since Zuo Long went to labor camp,
we never saw him again.
It had nothing to do with Zuo Long.
I've told you everything I know.
Officer Zhu,
don't forget what you promised me.
So what Jiao Lijun and Wang Dazhu
confessed earlier
was all prearranged by you, right?
We had no choice.
It's been 18 years.
You won't let me go.
The more Caisheng Group grows,
the more worried
I become.
I planned all of that.
The others were just
playing along with me.
They played their parts well.
Isn't this moment
exactly what you wanted to see?
What else do you want to know
about the robbery?
I'll cooperate fully.
All these years,
I've always believed
you committed the crime.
But for all these years,
I couldn't bring myself to believe
that Meng Guangcai, the brother
I've known so long and so well, did it.
I guess people change.
Zhu,
from the year we met,
you and I
haven't really changed.
Don't you agree?
Zhu?
What brings you here?
Zhu, why
are you looking at me like that?
Zhu,
I know
I've committed a crime.
But Zhu,
I didn't want to do that.
I just wanted a quiet life with Qin.
I wanted to learn
how to be a good man from you.
Can you let me go?
Zhu, can you let me go?
I'm begging you, let me go.
Please, Zhu.